[Music]
I don't know why but I'm continually
amazed to think that two and a half
billion of us around the world are
connected to each other through the
internet and that at any point in time
more than 30 percent of the world's
population can go online to learn to
create and to share and the amount of
time each of us is spending doing all of
this is also continuing to grow a recent
study showed that the young generation
alone is spending over eight hours a day
online as the parent of a nine-year-old
girl that number seems awfully low but
just as the Internet has opened up the
world for each and every one of us it
has also opened up each and every one of
us to the world and increasingly the
price we're being asked to pay for all
of this connectedness is our privacy
today what many of us would love to
believe is that the Internet is a
private place it's not and with every
click of the mouse and every touch of
the screen we are like Hansel and Gretel
leaving bread crumbs of our personal
information everywhere we travel through
the digital woods we are leaving our
birthdays our places of residence our
interests and preferences our
relationships our financial histories
and on and on it goes
now don't get me wrong I'm not for one
minute suggesting that sharing data is a
bad thing
in fact when I know the data that's
being shared and I'm asked explicitly
for my consent I want some sites to
understand my habits it helps them
suggest books for me to read or movies
for my family to watch for friends for
us to connect with but when I don't know
and when I haven't been asked that's
when the problem arises it's a
phenomenon on the internet today called
behavioral tracking and it is very big
business in fact there's an entire
industry formed around following us to
the digital woods and compiling a
profile on each of us and when all of
that data is held they can do almost
whatever they want with it this is an
area today that has very few regulations
and even fewer
rulz except for some of the recent
announcements here in the United States
and Europe it's an area of consumer
protection that's almost entirely naked
so let me expose this lurking industry a
little bit further the visualization you
see forming behind me is called
collusion and it's an experimental
browser add-on that you can install in
your Firefox browser that helps you see
where your web data is going and who's
tracking you the red dots you see up
there our sites that are behavioral
tracking that I have not navigated to
but are following me the blue dots are
the sites that I've actually navigated
directly to and the grey dots our sites
that are also tracking me but I have no
idea who they are all of them are
connected as you can see to form a
picture of me on the web and this is my
profile so let me go from an example to
something very specific and personal I
installed collusion in my own laptop two
weeks ago and I let it follow me around
for what was a pretty typical day now
like most of you I actually start my day
going online and checking email I then
go to a new site look for some headlines
and in this particular case I happen to
like one of them on the merits of music
literacy in schools and I shared it over
a social network our daughter then
joined us at the breakfast table and I
asked her is there an emphasis on music
literacy in your school and she of
course naturally as a nine-year-old
looked at me and said quizzically what's
literacy so I sent her online of course
to look it up now let me stop here we
are not even two bites into breakfast
and there are already nearly 25 sites
that are tracking me
I have navigated to a total of four so
let me fast-forward through the rest of
my day I go to work I check email I log
on to a few more social sites I blog I
checked more news reports I share some
of those news reports I go look at some
videos pretty typical day in this case
actually fairly pedantic and at the end
of the day as my day winds down look at
my profile the red dots
have exploded the grey dots have grown
exponentially
all in all there's over a hundred and
fifty sites that are now tracking my
personal information most all of them
without my consent I look at this
picture and it freaks me out this is
nothing I am being stalked across the
web and why is this happening pretty
simple
it's huge business the revenue of the
top handful of companies in this space
is over thirty nine billion dollars
today and as adults we are certainly not
alone at the same time I installed my
own collusion profile installed one for
my daughter and on one single Saturday
morning over two hours on the Internet
here's her collusion profile this is a
nine-year-old girl navigating to
principally children's sites I move from
this from freaked out to enraged this is
no longer me being a tech pioneer or a
privacy advocate this is me being a
parent imagine in the physical world if
somebody followed our children around
with a camera and a notebook and
recorded their every movement I can tell
you there isn't a person in this room
that would sit idly by we'd take action
it may not be good action but we would
take action we can't sit idly by here
either
this is happening today privacy is not
an option and it shouldn't be the price
we accept for just getting on the
internet our voices matter and our
actions matter even more today we've
launched collusion you can download it
install it in Firefox to see who is
tracking you across the web and
following you through the digital woods
going forward all of our voices need to
be heard because what we don't know can
actually hurt us because the memory of
the Internet is forever we are being
watched it's now time for us to watch
the Watchers thank you
[Applause]
[Music]